are you tired of writing content that
doesn't get read well who wouldn't be
but
do you want to fix it
of course you do and i'm going to teach
you how
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down why your
continent gets zero attention and
traffic even when it's fully seo
optimized
now before we get started keep in mind
i've been in the place that you've been
in and it's okay we're gonna solve that
today and of course the other thing i
want to talk to you about before we get
started is subscribing to this channel
so if you're on youtube click the alert
notification if you're on any other
channel just click subscribe
a study by ahref showed that 90.63
of content gets no traffic from google
think about that
that's one
out of 10 pages that are getting traffic
9 out of 10 pages
are getting no traffic that's a lot of
content that's getting no traffic and
there are few reasons why your content
is getting noticed
and there's a few reasons why your
content isn't getting noticed
so let's go into each of the reasons
reason number one
you're targeting only head terms and
keywords
because if you only target those big
popular terms you're not going to get
that much traffic leave a comment below
when when you're doing keyword research
and using tools like uber says what are
the keywords that you're targeting are
you going after those head terms if you
are let me know in the comments if you
prefer long tail terms let me know that
as well in the comments i'm curious what
portion of my listeners or readers are
going after head terms versus long tail
terms and there's no wrong or right
answer if you have a lot of authority by
all means go after the head terms if you
don't you're just starting off go after
the long tail terms and then eventually
when you build up your authority you
could
then go after more head terms
start targeting variations of these
longer tail keywords as well great
example of this is how to get more
followers on instagram how to get more
instagram followers you see there one
was how to get
more instagram followers and one was how
to get more followers on instagram in
other words one variation had the word
instagram and followers switched over
the other variation but they both get
searched different amount of times it
doesn't matter what the keyword research
tools show you they're searched
different amount of times so when you do
variations of these and you build up
those topic clusters or content clusters
to support your overall authority around
those bigger topics and head terms
you're going to start ranking better and
that's how you compete with the
wikipedias of the world
now reason number two
optimizing for search engines instead of
visitors look no matter how much time
you spend optimizing your on-page seo
even making sure your content contains
all the keywords that you're targeting
the long tail ones the headtail the
variations of them
that just won't work if your content
doesn't help people
you need to focus on discovering what
the intent behind the searches for that
keyword is and then
meet that search intent for example
people searching for iphone 13 are
unlikely going to have search intent
mapped by long-form content pieces the
search intent here is more likely
transactional and people wanting to buy
a iphone 13 sure there may be a 14 15 or
17 but they're looking for a 13. so even
if you put together the best content
piece around iphone 13 and teaching
people how to use it and all the
features that doesn't really mean you're
going to get any traffic to it people
are just really looking in most cases to
just buy iphone 13.
reason number three you're not doing
contextual internal linking
when you write content in certain area
let's say you're blogging about
marketing chances are there are plenty
of opportunities for you to enter a link
to other content pieces on your website
let's say for example that i'm writing
an article about social media marketing
and you also have another page on
instagram marketing
the social media was just giving an
overview of the landscape then i cross
link into that instagram one it will
help that instagram rank higher
especially if that social media
marketing one is already doing well
in my content piece about social media
marketing
i'm also probably going to write
something about instagram nothing big
maybe a paragraph or a few sentences and
then that creates the perfect link
opportunity now if i had to fudge in
instagram marketing into my social media
marketing article and doesn't really fit
then i wouldn't do it but you already
know instagram is social media so it
should fit
the important thing
that you need to keep in mind and notice
here is that you shouldn't overdo it you
should only link to another page when it
benefits the user
i don't want to go read article or deep
even better let me ask you this do you
want to read an article on seo reading
reading reading be like huh
neil linked me to shopify and setting up
my shopify store even though this
article on seo has nothing to do with
e-commerce you're like no
why are you linking me here neil
you don't want to do that to people or
else in the long run it'll hurt your
rankings reason 4 your page doesn't have
enough backlinks
backlinks are still one of the most
important ranking signals and google
takes into account when serving users
with search results it's just like a
presidential election the more votes the
president gets the more likelier to win
the similar way happens with the web now
there's other factors than just links
but
if you get more links in your
competitors oh boy you better be excited
because you know what over time you're
probably going to rank higher assuming
all the other elements are there as well
in the same study i mentioned from
ahrefs there's a clear correlation
between content that gets no traffic and
content that doesn't have any backlinks
in other words the more backlinks the
page has the more organic traffic it
gets from google
you should focus on creating content
that has the potential to naturally
attack backlinks and keep working on
your link building efforts over time
reason 5 your content isn't every not
every content piece should be evergreen
but
the majority of your content should be
if you're going to write content that is
only going to be relevant for a month in
your new site that's fine but if it's a
huge amount of effort to create that
content well you're really wasting it
focus on long-term results yes you may
not get the short-term benefit but
that's okay you win by playing the long
game your content should be valuable for
someone reading it in one year or five
years and you should devote up to 40 of
your content
writing to refreshing old content
check this out i write four pieces of
article a month you know those posts you
read on neil patel yes i'm writing them
for a month but you're like wait neil we
see so many more than that you know why
you see a lot of those posts at the top
i've been blogging for over 10 years
my team updates over a hundred
keep in mind that's 25 times more
content than i'm writing they're
updating over a hundred of my old
articles keeping them relevant now if
your website isn't as old as mine you
don't need to spend that much time
updating your old content so 40 is a
good rule of thumb for a blog that's a
few years old
you'll notice that most of the time your
content will generally climb up in the
rankings and then start getting tons of
traffic and then over time it starts
dying down but by updating it
boom it breathes life into that content
and then helps pop it back up over time
so that's the solution is to keep
keeping your content up to date and
fresh reason six
your page takes too long to load
it goes beyond just seo it goes all
about experience i don't care how many
backlinks you have or how good your seo
is as a user if i search and i click on
your site and it takes like 10 seconds
to load you think i'm going to be
sticking around no unless you have like
some crazy deal and you're selling me an
apple laptop that's brand new with no
defects for a hundred dollars i'm not
gonna wait 10 seconds now no one wants
to wait more than three seconds in
general before they're able to read your
content if someone clicks on your
content on google search